hello and welcome in this video I'm
going to attempt to do something but
I've never actually tried before and
that is the creation of a cellular
automata our simulation today I'm going
to turn to predator and prey the rules
of this are as follows
so the router is made out of a grid of
cells in each one of these cells can
contain one of three things either a
predator represent library to prey
represented by green or nothing
represented by nothing will plant in
each step of the simulation both species
will move around randomly both species
also have a certain amount of Health for
the prey the health is constantly
increasing throughout the simulation
when it reaches a certain threshold they
reproduce and then the health resets to
zero for all the Predators the health is
constantly decreasing and rate reaches
zero they die and then it turns into
nothing however if the predator moves on
to the same cell as they prey then the
predator will reproduce and then using
the priests health it will heal itself
and that's about it I also have the
rules of this in the description so that
seems simple enough let's get to this so
of course this is different to our usual
type of videos where are usually you
know create games but I just wanted to
try something different for a change
anyways first of all I - I'll cut away
to represent me grid of the different
species types so the first part of this
is the color whether a cell is red green
or black and it is I'd use an STD vector
of isothermal vertices and this is
really good because first of all it
makes it really easy to change the color
of the cells and second little I can
just throw the whole vertex array in a
single draw rule which is very efficient
so for testing purposes I started off by
filling the array with a different shade
of gray and this requires basically two
steps first of all you have to position
the SS ml vertices so they know like
we're on the window to actually be drawn
and second at all you just have to give
them the color and the result of this
can be seen here the second thing to do
is the actual representation of the
creatures
so today's I create the class called
creature and run using enum class to
represent what type of creature is
rather if the prey a predator or just
nothing at all and of course it also
holds the healthful feature
so these creatures are actually stored
in a different STD vector from the SML
vertex array or the STD vector of assert
varsity's so I think sort of connect
these two STD vectors together because
of course the color is representation of
the creature type so today this is quite
simple they just share the same index in
the different arrays slightly to start
off with I give the creatures a random
type and then simply using it and switch
I can then get their colors the result
of this can be seen here because as you
can see on the window the pixels now
have either a red green or black color
representing the different creature
types now that I had a virtual
representation of different types of
creatures in the screen it was now time
to implement what happens during each
step of the simulation now to do this I
just simply follow the rules that I
mentioned at the start of the video or
you can find them in the description I'm
going to be honest here
now what implementation of this is
probably really terrible and that's
simply because it's my first time doing
a cellular automata however it's good so
because of that really as long as it
works I'm pretty happy
now the sauce tests of this learnt
pretty terribly because as you can see
the house screen turns into predators
and then all the Predators died out
really quickly I then thought it would
be a good idea if I could get some text
to draw in the window and this text
would show me how early predator and
prey is in this simulation at any given
time and well after this it was just a
lot of trial and error to try and get it
to work correctly of course there were a
lot of logic errors however even after
typically foster carers it was still
hard to get the right balance of you
know presence of Prayer and the sickness
at the start when I for a nice
equilibrium for up the simulation so
let's see if I can get it to work
correctly
here is the final result it works
exactly as expected when the prey
becomes like way too much the predator
just wipes them all out and then
eventually it just turns into some kind
of very nice equilibrium and here is
just a little bit of setup the teacher
way of working
[Music]
today we is that earth thank you for
watching I would like to thank my
patreon supporters Timothy Gibbons and
glidecam motor in your support really
means a lot to me and Brooke thank you
so anyways once again thank you for
watching as per usual the source code
and a download link can be found in the
description below
and be warned the source code isn't
great but yes silver so just enjoy the
rest of this but footage for the rest of
the video bye